widgets-bundle/getting-started/creating-a-widget.md, before:

# Creating a widget

What follows are the basic requirements for creating your own widget using the SiteOrigin Widgets Bundle as a framework.

## Registering a custom widgets folder

To allow you to organize your widgets and keep them separate from the SiteOrigin widgets, we have included a filter hook which you can use to register a folder containing several of your widgets, as follows:

```php
<?php

function add_my_awesome_widgets_collection($folders){
	$folders[] = 'path/to/my/widgets/';
	return $folders;
}
add_filter('siteorigin_widgets_widget_folders', 'add_my_awesome_widgets_collection');
```

The Widgets Bundle plugin code will check subfolders of this folder for PHP files. If it finds any PHP files with a metadata header containing a Widget Name field, it will list them as a widget which can be activated and used anywhere widgets may normally be used.

In our example `extend-widgets-bundle` plugin we use the standard WordPress method of creating a plugin, which then uses the above filter hook to add it's `extra-widgets` folder to the search path for widgets.

## Widget name

Start by creating your widget folder using a name of your choice, and then a PHP file with the same name. We encourage the use of the WordPress guidelines for naming files and folders, which you can find <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Writing_a_Plugin#Names.2C_Files.2C_and_Locations" target="_blank">here</a>.

## Widget metadata

The first thing you'll need in your PHP file is the metadata header which is used by the SiteOrigin Widgets Bundle plugin to identify PHP files which contain a widget class. The minimum requirement for this header is the Widget Name field, as without this field the file will be skipped. The rest of the fields are optional but we encourage their use, as they provide the option to display more detailed information about the widget and/or widget author in future.

```php
<?php

/*
Widget Name: Hello world widget
Description: An example widget which displays 'Hello world!'.
Author: Me
Author URI: http://example.com
Widget URI: http://example.com/hello-world-widget-docs,
Video URI: http://example.com/hello-world-widget-video
*/

```

## Widget class

Now you'll need to create a class which extends the `SiteOrigin_Widget` abstract base class and, as a minimum, overrides the `get_template_name` and `get_style_name` abstract methods. You'll also need to register your widget class with the SiteOrigin Widgets Bundle using the `siteorigin_widget_register` function, passing in the widget id, widget file path, and widget class name as arguments.

```php

class Hello_World_Widget extends SiteOrigin_Widget {

	function get_template_name($instance) {
		return '';
	}

	function get_style_name($instance) {
		return '';
	}
}

siteorigin_widget_register('hello-world-widget', __FILE__, 'Hello_World_Widget');
```

Once you've done this, you'll see your widget in the Plugins > SiteOrigin Widgets list, it can be activated and deactivated, and you'll see an 'Untitled Widget' in Page Builder widgets and a blank widget in other widget lists. So you can't really use your widget yet, but it's there!

## Widget banner image
To use a custom image for the banner in the Plugins > SiteOrigin Widgets list you can either place it in a folder named `assets` and name the file `banner.svg` or you can use the `siteorigin_widgets_widget_banner` filter hook. The following code can be found in the example main widget file `my-awesome-widget.php` outside of the class declaration. If you put the code somewhere else, make sure to adjust the file path accordingly.

```php
function my_awesome_widget_banner_img_src( $banner_url, $widget_meta ) {
	if( $widget_meta['ID'] == 'my-awesome-widget') {
		$banner_url = plugin_dir_url(__FILE__) . 'images/awesome_widget_banner.svg';
	}
	return $banner_url;
}
add_filter( 'siteorigin_widgets_widget_banner', 'my_awesome_widget_banner_img_src', 10, 2);
```

## Widget class constructor

Here you'll see how to implement the constructor for your widget. The `SiteOrigin_Widget` class extends the `WP_Widget` class so the parent constructor call might look familiar, with a few additions.

```php
function __construct() {
	//Here you can do any preparation required before calling the parent constructor, such as including additional files or initializing variables.

	//Call the parent constructor with the required arguments.
	parent::__construct(
		// The unique id for your widget.
		'hello-world-widget',

		// The name of the widget for display purposes.
		__('Hello World Widget', 'hello-world-widget-text-domain'),

		// The $widget_options array, which is passed through to WP_Widget.
		// It has a couple of extras like the optional help URL, which should link to your sites help or support page.
		array(
			'description' => __('A hello world widget.', 'hello-world-widget-text-domain'),
			'help'        => 'http://example.com/hello-world-widget-docs',
		),

		//The $control_options array, which is passed through to WP_Widget
		array(
		),

		//The $form_options array, which describes the form fields used to configure SiteOrigin widgets. We'll explain these in more detail later.
		array(
			'text' => array(
				'type' => 'text',
				'label' => __('Hello world! goes here.', 'siteorigin-widgets'),
				'default' => 'Hello world!'
			),
		),

		//The $base_folder path string.
		plugin_dir_path(__FILE__)
	);
}
```

Once you have your constructor implemented like the above example, you should see your widget's name and description being displayed in the various widget configuration lists. The Hello World widget will now also display a text field in the Edit Widget form containing the text 'Hello world!', which can be edited and saved.

## Widget template

You need to provide a template to tell the widget how it should be displayed. You supply a template name by overriding the `get_template_name` function and returning the name of the template file, without a `.php` file extension. By default, the base `SiteOrigin_Widget` class looks for a PHP file, with the name returned by `get_template_name`, in a `tpl` directory, in the widget directory. You can change this behaviour by overriding the `get_template_dir` function and returning the path of a directory (without leading or trailing slashes), relative to the widget class file.

```php
function get_template_name($instance) {
	return 'hello-world-template';
}

function get_template_dir($instance) {
	return 'hw-templates';
}
```

Below is the directory structure of the Hello World Widget.

![Hello World Directory Structure](../images/hello-world-widget-directory-structure.png)

Now that the widget knows where to find it's template you can add in some HTML. The Hello World widget template simply contains the following:

```php
<div>
	<?php echo wp_kses_post($instance['text']) ?>
</div>
```

And now you can see your widget being displayed!

## Widget styles

You can supply a LESS stylesheet for your widget by overriding the `get_style_name` function and returning the name of the LESS stylesheet, without a `.less` file extension. The base `SiteOrigin_Widget` class looks for a LESS file in a `styles` directory, in the widget directory.

You can find more detail about the use of LESS in the Widgets Bundle [here](../templating/less-stylesheets.md).

```php
function get_style_name($instance) {
	return 'my-widget-styles';
}
```

Commit message:

mentioned the plugins folder as a basis for this.

widgets-bundle/getting-started/creating-a-widget.md, after:

# Creating a widget

In the World Of Wordpress, a Widget is essentially a specific type of plugin. You have to create a plugin that will host all your custom widgets. Its logical place is therefore in the `plugins` folder (and not your `themes` folder). 

What follows are the basic requirements for creating your own widget using the SiteOrigin Widgets Bundle as a framework. Create your plugin accordingly, or, to get up to speed rapidly, create a new plugin in your wp-content/plugins folder using a copy of [this example code](https://github.com/siteorigin/so-dev-examples/tree/develop/extend-widgets-bundle). Activate the plugin via the wp-admin interface. Do read the following to understand how it works and how to adapt it to do what you need.

## Registering a custom widgets folder

To allow you to organize your widgets and keep them separate from the SiteOrigin widgets, we have included a filter hook which you can use to register a folder containing several of your widgets, as follows:

```php
<?php

function add_my_awesome_widgets_collection($folders){
	$folders[] = 'path/to/my/widgets/';
	return $folders;
}
add_filter('siteorigin_widgets_widget_folders', 'add_my_awesome_widgets_collection');
```

The Widgets Bundle plugin code will check subfolders of this folder for PHP files. If it finds any PHP files with a metadata header containing a Widget Name field, it will list them as a widget which can be activated and used anywhere widgets may normally be used.

In our example `extend-widgets-bundle` plugin we use the standard WordPress method of creating a plugin, which then uses the above filter hook to add it's `extra-widgets` folder to the search path for widgets.

## Widget name

Start by creating your widget folder using a name of your choice, and then a PHP file with the same name. We encourage the use of the WordPress guidelines for naming files and folders, which you can find <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Writing_a_Plugin#Names.2C_Files.2C_and_Locations" target="_blank">here</a>.

## Widget metadata

The first thing you'll need in your PHP file is the metadata header which is used by the SiteOrigin Widgets Bundle plugin to identify PHP files which contain a widget class. The minimum requirement for this header is the Widget Name field, as without this field the file will be skipped. The rest of the fields are optional but we encourage their use, as they provide the option to display more detailed information about the widget and/or widget author in future.

```php
<?php

/*
Widget Name: Hello world widget
Description: An example widget which displays 'Hello world!'.
Author: Me
Author URI: http://example.com
Widget URI: http://example.com/hello-world-widget-docs,
Video URI: http://example.com/hello-world-widget-video
*/

```

## Widget class

Now you'll need to create a class which extends the `SiteOrigin_Widget` abstract base class and, as a minimum, overrides the `get_template_name` and `get_style_name` abstract methods. You'll also need to register your widget class with the SiteOrigin Widgets Bundle using the `siteorigin_widget_register` function, passing in the widget id, widget file path, and widget class name as arguments.

```php

class Hello_World_Widget extends SiteOrigin_Widget {

	function get_template_name($instance) {
		return '';
	}

	function get_style_name($instance) {
		return '';
	}
}

siteorigin_widget_register('hello-world-widget', __FILE__, 'Hello_World_Widget');
```

Once you've done this, you'll see your widget in the Plugins > SiteOrigin Widgets list, it can be activated and deactivated, and you'll see an 'Untitled Widget' in Page Builder widgets and a blank widget in other widget lists. So you can't really use your widget yet, but it's there!

## Widget banner image
To use a custom image for the banner in the Plugins > SiteOrigin Widgets list you can either place it in a folder named `assets` and name the file `banner.svg` or you can use the `siteorigin_widgets_widget_banner` filter hook. The following code can be found in the example main widget file `my-awesome-widget.php` outside of the class declaration. If you put the code somewhere else, make sure to adjust the file path accordingly.

```php
function my_awesome_widget_banner_img_src( $banner_url, $widget_meta ) {
	if( $widget_meta['ID'] == 'my-awesome-widget') {
		$banner_url = plugin_dir_url(__FILE__) . 'images/awesome_widget_banner.svg';
	}
	return $banner_url;
}
add_filter( 'siteorigin_widgets_widget_banner', 'my_awesome_widget_banner_img_src', 10, 2);
```

## Widget class constructor

Here you'll see how to implement the constructor for your widget. The `SiteOrigin_Widget` class extends the `WP_Widget` class so the parent constructor call might look familiar, with a few additions.

```php
function __construct() {
	//Here you can do any preparation required before calling the parent constructor, such as including additional files or initializing variables.

	//Call the parent constructor with the required arguments.
	parent::__construct(
		// The unique id for your widget.
		'hello-world-widget',

		// The name of the widget for display purposes.
		__('Hello World Widget', 'hello-world-widget-text-domain'),

		// The $widget_options array, which is passed through to WP_Widget.
		// It has a couple of extras like the optional help URL, which should link to your sites help or support page.
		array(
			'description' => __('A hello world widget.', 'hello-world-widget-text-domain'),
			'help'        => 'http://example.com/hello-world-widget-docs',
		),

		//The $control_options array, which is passed through to WP_Widget
		array(
		),

		//The $form_options array, which describes the form fields used to configure SiteOrigin widgets. We'll explain these in more detail later.
		array(
			'text' => array(
				'type' => 'text',
				'label' => __('Hello world! goes here.', 'siteorigin-widgets'),
				'default' => 'Hello world!'
			),
		),

		//The $base_folder path string.
		plugin_dir_path(__FILE__)
	);
}
```

Once you have your constructor implemented like the above example, you should see your widget's name and description being displayed in the various widget configuration lists. The Hello World widget will now also display a text field in the Edit Widget form containing the text 'Hello world!', which can be edited and saved.

## Widget template

You need to provide a template to tell the widget how it should be displayed. You supply a template name by overriding the `get_template_name` function and returning the name of the template file, without a `.php` file extension. By default, the base `SiteOrigin_Widget` class looks for a PHP file, with the name returned by `get_template_name`, in a `tpl` directory, in the widget directory. You can change this behaviour by overriding the `get_template_dir` function and returning the path of a directory (without leading or trailing slashes), relative to the widget class file.

```php
function get_template_name($instance) {
	return 'hello-world-template';
}

function get_template_dir($instance) {
	return 'hw-templates';
}
```

Below is the directory structure of the Hello World Widget.

![Hello World Directory Structure](../images/hello-world-widget-directory-structure.png)

Now that the widget knows where to find it's template you can add in some HTML. The Hello World widget template simply contains the following:

```php
<div>
	<?php echo wp_kses_post($instance['text']) ?>
</div>
```

And now you can see your widget being displayed!

## Widget styles

You can supply a LESS stylesheet for your widget by overriding the `get_style_name` function and returning the name of the LESS stylesheet, without a `.less` file extension. The base `SiteOrigin_Widget` class looks for a LESS file in a `styles` directory, in the widget directory.

You can find more detail about the use of LESS in the Widgets Bundle [here](../templating/less-stylesheets.md).

```php
function get_style_name($instance) {
	return 'my-widget-styles';
}
```
